Hey, Connections Church Pastor Mark here.
Hopefully you were doing well.
This is week three of this series that we're doing in the Psalms.
God, where are you in this Psalm?
For those of you, maybe you were totally new to church.
You'll probably know this Psalm.
This is probably one of the most, this is the Justin Bieber of Psalms.
This is one that a lot of people know, even if you...
rarely go to church.
You've heard of funerals or weddings or whatever.
Let me just read it to you and then we'll unpack its great meaning.
It's the shepherd Psalm, Psalm 23.
If you've got a Bible, open it up.
We'll put it on the screen for you.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I lack nothing.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside quiet waters.
He refreshes my soul.
He guides me along the right paths for his namesake, even though I walk through the darkest valley.
I will fear no evil for you are with me, your rod and your staff that comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup over flows.
Surely your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
There is so much to unpack in this.
This could literally be a four part series, just this psalm all by itself.
We could go through this, but I want to try to explain it to you as it's the big theme of
us needing direction in the world, us needing direction in our lives.
That's kind of the big idea of the whole point of it that we are indeed sheep.
And as I go through it, there's gonna be a couple, two or three times where I stop and I explain the psalm from a very unique perspective, which we rarely ever get, which is, there was a guy who wrote a book years ago, his name is W. Philip Keller, and he wrote a book called A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23.
And it's beautiful because we look at this psalm as if it's some cute little psalm about a little sheep
whatever he gives us a whole bunch of great data behind this song and what it's saying about God, about us, about life.
in the scope and the view of an actual shepherd.
And there's all these little kind of things about it.
We won't have time to get into all of them because it really is an amazing book of you, what I go read up.
Here's what he starts out saying.
He says, this Psalm is about protection during dangerous travel.
So we think about it like a cute little psalmo.
It's so nice.
This is about protection during a dangerous travel.
Think about your whole life as one big dangerous journey that God is trying to lead you on.
It really is.
Your life is temptation and Satan and sin and death and all the things
And he says, this is about a traveler and his flock of sheep facing risk in narrow ravines and dangerous pathways.
All of it shows a trustworthiness in God in the face of every circumstance so that the speaker is confident and serene in the face of every threat.
This is literally
what we need in all of our lives.
If you come in here, you face threats, right now you're overwhelmed.
Even as I'm recording this, I'm just gonna let you in there.
I just got some news a couple hours ago.
This is really hard for me to deal with.
Just something in my life where it's like, man, I got no control over this particular scenario in my life.
And I wish it was something I could do.
And there's nothing I can do about it.
And it's just, it's tough.
And you're like, man, this wears on me.
And even as I was reading that Psalm to you as I was sitting here, it was refreshing my soul because I'm like,
This shepherd, he's in charge.
There's things that I have no power over.
He's in charge of this thing, and I am a sheep.
And that's the first thing that we want to talk about.
The Lord is my shepherd.
It means that we are sheep, which is something that we got to just grab ahold of and go, man, we are oftentimes seen as I'm the champion of life.
I'm a winner.
I'm a great person.
I'm smart.
I'm beautiful.
And this says, no, your part in this story is to be a sheep, a loser.
You are lost.
You are dumb.
All right, this is what
She did back then.
They were dumb.
Now they're dumb.
And the beautiful thing is, is that God still cares about us, even though we are the sheep of the story.
Which is beautiful because you don't need to feel like a winner.
You need to understand that you are a messed up, mistake ridden, smelly sheep.
That's your role in this.
And we come to church and we dress up and we look nice and we live in a culture of cancel culture where if you make a mistake, we cancel you and we never talk to you again.
And God still loves you.
He's a shepherd and you're a sheep.
It's beautiful, but you just embrace the sheepness of yourself, your mistake written, your disaster, you make mistakes, and yet God wants to be your shepherd still.
Some of you just need to hear that and beautiful.
I remember this guy in our church.
He was the only guy in our church.
that prayed for me all the time.
He would send me a weekly text with these detailed, Holy Spirit revealed prayers that he would reveal for my family, my wife, my three daughters, me.
He would say, I'm praying for Sienna this week.
Hey, this week, the bell this week, Aaron, you have all these details of things we face that week.
And I remember he would do that for like a year.
He was the only person in our church doing that.
And then I met with him and he said, I have a confession to make.
I've been cheating on my wife for like three years.
I've been in this affair.
And I was like, how does this make any sense?
And it started to mess up my paradigms of the kinds of people that God still speaks and uses, messed up, sinful people.
And some of you are sitting here right now going, God can never use me.
Listen, He uses anybody because we're all a bunch of sheep, just bumping into each other, sinning, making mistakes.
And yet God uses you to do amazing things.
And we need Him to guide us because this loftiest of beings,
God himself.
We got to understand in that culture, when you're a shepherd, you, you are with the smelly.
You are with the, it's the loneliest job in that culture.
That's what's fascinating.
But the Christmas story is he's the angel appears to these shepherds who are watching their flocks by night.
And we just read that as if it's some cute little story.
No, the shepherds were the dirty.
They were the crooks.
They were the thieves.
They were the people that people didn't trust.
And then they had the night shift, which was the worst shift of all the shifts.
You put the scallywags at the night shift and yet those are the people the angels showed up to.
And so here's the thing, God comes down to our level.
And he treasures us, and he loves on us, even though we are bunking into each other.
And this is what he did for me.
When I was 17 years old, God showed up in my life and started the shepherd me.
I was in woodworking class, and a guy named Chris kind of told me about Jesus, and God got my attention, even though I was out doing all messed up things.
And what W...
Philip Keller says is, if you look at the quality of a shepherd's life, it's all a sheep's life.
It's all dependent on the shepherd.
How is the quality of the shepherd?
And he says, I used to go and I used to look at all these big sheep pastors and I would see these beat up sheep and malnourished sheep and sheep that were biting at each other and hurting each other.
And it would always be a shepherd who was neglecting
that sheep and how good is it that we have a God that doesn't neglect us?
How good is it that we have a shepherd who loves us even though we're sheep and he looks at us and so many of you have taken awful shepherds in your life.
You've taken money or sex or power or beauty or reputation or having a great family as these shepherds to guide your life, to direct your life, to define your joy and anything other than God is a really bad shepherd.
That's the first thing you got to grab ahold of.
Anything other
than God in your life is a really bad shepherd.
And Jesus then comes along and John 10 and says, I am the good shepherd.
I want to lead your life.
I want to guide you.
I want to teach you.
I want to make you flourish rather than derail in life.
And so listen, I love how God doesn't leave us alone.
He still speaks to us.
You know, Jesus in the gospel, John talks about the idea that my sheep hear my voice.
Do you hear the voice?
of Jesus anymore.
Can you hear him as a shepherd?
And here's what I love.
There are moments in life when you got to hear him and he speaks to you and you got to be able to listen.
So I remember years ago during COVID, we shut down for 18 months as a church and all my sermons were kind of like I was preaching to a camera and not in an audience.
There was no people around and I did this for 18 months.
And I remember I was preaching one Sunday and as I looked into the camera, I said something out of the blue,
God just gave me this weird sentence and I never said it before in my life.
I said, hey, let me tell you something.
Some of you watching this video right now across this divide, I'm speaking into a camera right now.
Some of you just need to hear this.
God not only loves you, but he likes you.
And I didn't ever thought of that term in my life.
I was like, I don't even know what that sentence means.
That week, no joke, I got an email from a woman.
She says, my, my young 16 year old son and I were watching the service and just before we turned on church today, he looked at me and said, I don't want to do church anymore.
I'm bored with God.
I don't think he exists.
I don't believe in the Bible anymore.
Because you know what, mom?
Sometimes I don't want to just know that God loves me.
I want to hear somebody tell me that God likes me and then
Five minutes later, we turned on the service and you looked right into camera and said, someone needs to hear this right now.
God don't really loves me, but he like, I mean, this is crazy that God actually speaks.
It's so beautiful because he comes down into our setting and speaks to us and loves us and guides us.
And then he says that those, the Lord is my shepherd and then he says, I lack nothing.
Here's what Keller says about sheep.
He says, sheep left to themselves, lack everything.
Think about that for a second.
This psalmist is saying, with this shepherd I lack nothing.
He's saying a sheep left to himself without a good shepherd lacks everything in life.
I want you to watch this video, probably seen this video before it's a classic.
I want you to watch it.
All right, think about that.
video.
Just the dumbest creature on earth gets out of something.
This is what God does.
He gets us out of something and then we just go right back into it.
Without God, listen, we lack everything.
The only way to be satisfied in life, everything we do in life comes back to wanting.
We want more contentment.
We want more joy.
We have this bottomless pit of decisions.
that lead us in all these directions.
And God gets us out of it and says, no, go on this, and we go back to the well of the sin or the bad choices, the mistakes, and we just get ourselves stuck again.
And God pulls us out and goes, no, this is the endless wanting, right?
He's going, if you are in Christ, if your identity is in Christ, you should have such a contentment that you no longer want.
in a way that is destructive and toxic to your life.
They don't want anymore.
One writer has said, God is most glorified in us when we are most satisfied in Him.
Think about your life.
What are the things that you go after?
Just an endless bottomless pit of wanting more, wanting this is why we sin.
Why do you sin at the end of the day?
The reason you sin is because you're not satisfied in God.
That's why you go after that sexual experience or that money thing or that, whatever it is, it's because your soul is not content in Him.
You don't go, man, Christ is my all in all and I don't need that thing.
Your life is an endless wanting.
And so we go after this and we go, this is why Amazon comes to my house six times a day, all right?
Literally, I know the guy's name.
Hey, Dave, how's it going?
Because my wife just orders something.
She's like, why don't I own that?
Give me that.
You know, ding, ding, ding, six times a day.
The guy Dave comes to my house and delivers something.
Why?
Because there's an endless wanting.
I want another this and I want an updated that.
And he says, man, once you have God in your life, like truly walking with him,
It takes away the want.
I lack nothing.
And then he says he makes me lie down in green pastures.
I love this because he makes you lie down.
You know one of the great epidemics of your life?
is that you don't spiritually lie down, meaning you live in a culture that tells you that you need to earn, that you need to accomplish great things, you need to publish, you need to post, you need to get a better job, you need a raise, you need a promotion, you need to do better, you need to make an impact, you need to be an influencer and this text said, no, no, no, here's the beautiful freedom I find in Christ that I lie down.
and do nothing.
I don't have to earn this.
All right, this is something that, see, here's the thing in life.
You know what the number one problem in your life is?
One writer has said this, the great distraction in your life is the fact that
It's exactly that.
Satan, his main role is to not even tempt you towards him.
It's just to distract you from godliness.
The number one thing keeping you from the godliness that God has called you to is that thing in your right pocket where it buzzes and it says, I do do this and you should do that.
If you looked at your phone right now, why don't you do me a favor?
At all the campuses, take out your phone right now.
And I don't know if you know where it is, but you can swipe down and look up the amount of time that you've spent on your phone this week, right?
So you kind of, you look that up and look at the amount of time you spent on your phone per day.
Right?
For me, I looked it up before I started shooting this, four hours and 43 minutes per day I spend looking at my phone.
Now, some of that's for work, but a lot of it is me just scrolling and feeling like I can't just lie down and do nothing.
I need to produce.
I need to influence.
I need to do something for the world because my whole significance rides on that.
I mean, God's going, you got to rest from this.
Right?
You got four hours and 43 minutes per day to be on your phone.
Imagine you spent that time actually doing contributing to loving on your neighbor, loving your enemy, praying for the, I remember one writer has said one of the great roles of Twitter and Facebook and Instagram and TikTok at the end of time on Judgment Day will be for God to look at us and say there was no excuse for prayerlessness.
Right, that's just convicting.
It's like, man, well, I couldn't pray enough, Lord.
It's like, okay, let's look at your daily hours on your phone.
And so some of you need this this week.
You've been stressed, you've had bills, you, your marriage is stressed.
The kid, some of you are just so wound up right now.
You need this sentence.
He makes me lie down in green pastures that you don't need to be active.
Some of you are just like, yeah, but I'm supposed to,
I'm supposed to start orphanages and change the world and become a missionary in China and do all these things.
I'm supposed to do all do, do, do, do.
That's what I'm gonna press God.
That's what I'm gonna do, all these things.
And he's going, you know what?
I want you to know something.
Maybe the most important thing you can do right now for your life is rest and green pastors, man.
Sit and do nothing.
Don't try to produce.
This is the beautiful thing of the gospel.
Religion tells you you have to produce, right?
See, this is one of the great things
of Jesus, even when he meets people, you know, he meets the woman who's caught in adultery and he looks at her and he says, neither do I condemn you, go and sin no more.
And the beautiful thing about the gospel is order matters.
He doesn't look at her and say, go and sin no more, and then I won't condemn you.
It's first, neither do I condemn you.
You've believed in me, now go and sin no more.
Produce something of your life.
Do these things, do these great tasks, but they're not the things that make God love you.
order matters.
And so sometimes it's like being with God rather than doing for God.
And he says, okay, so in this, he leads me beside quiet waters, right?
One of the great responsibilities of the shepherd, W. Phillip Keller says, is to lead, lead the sheep to water.
So he says this, the body of a sheep is composed of 70% water.
If thirsty, the sheep becomes restless and will try to drink polluted waters.
Think about this for your own life.
They pick up parasites from this.
I recall so clearly standing under the blazing sun of Africa and watching the native herds being led to their owners' water wells.
The flocks were led down into these deep cisterns where cool, clear, clean water awaited them.
But down in the well, stripped naked was the owner, bailing water to satisfy the flock.
It was hard, heavy, hot work only through the owner's energy, effort, sweat, and strength could his sheep
have their thirst satisfied.
Green pastures don't happen by chance.
They are a product of tremendous labor, time, and skill in land use.
Here's what he's saying.
It's amazing what God offers you.
Quiet waters.
And some of you are trying to force them and create them for yourself.
And he's going, no, no, no.
Listen, Jesus Christ, listen to me.
Some of you need to hear this.
Jesus Christ is the owner.
who's down in the well, literally the Bible says stripped naked, right?
This is what these shepherds in Africa would have to do, stripped naked to dig out the ground so that, but side quiet waters, Jesus Christ was stripped naked and put on a cross so that you would never have to thirst again, right?
You could give it amen to that, all right?
I know it's connected and you guys don't amen and shout a lot, but that is worth it.
Jesus Christ did all of this, so you would never have to thirst again.
You could be totally content in him and then, listen, what Keller says this, he says, in order for a sheep to literally sit by quiet waters and be sitting on green pastures and resting, they have to be free from three things that I think are very true about our lives, okay?
Three things.
First is fear.
The sheep, if they're scared, they can never rest.
How beautiful is it that the good shepherd takes away your fear?
Right, you're thinking about Christmas.
I was sharing with my friend the other day.
If you've ever seen the...
the Peanuts, Charlie Brown, Christmas movie.
It's on every Christmas, everybody's seen it.
And there's a moment where Charlie Brown goes, what's Christmas all about?
And Linus comes out with his Linus blanket.
And of course, the Linus blanket is because he's afraid.
He struggles with anxiety, as many of you do.
And he begins to tell Charlie Brown what Christmas is all about.
And he begins to preach.
And when he gets to the part where the angel says,
Fear not, right?
He's speaking all the people and he's quoting Luke chapter two.
Fear not.
The minute he says that, he drops his Linus blanket.
He literally opens his hand, it falls on the ground.
And Charles Scholz, who is the writer and a Christian, is trying to tell us if Christmas is real, then you don't have to be afraid anymore.
Right?
If Easter is real, we don't have to be.
If Jesus Christ really died, really rose from the dead, you don't need to be afraid anymore of the things where you borrow trouble from all.
What about my kids and what about my health and what about this and what about that?
All the things he takes away your fear, just like he took away the fear of the sheep.
And there are many things in my life that I'm fearful of.
this week, as I mentioned, there's things I can't control.
There's hospital visits.
I did a few weeks ago that I was like, I don't know how this is gonna turn out.
Moving down to California with my three daughters from Canada, all the questions about how am I gonna survive?
And I don't even know what hospital I'm going to.
It's different down here.
You go to different hospitals and depending on which company you have it, and whereas back home, it's like you go to the hospital, right?
You just like, I'm driving up to the highway.
I'm like, do I go here?
All the complexity of life fully
fear and he's going, you hold on to the shepherd, you don't even have to be afraid.
How many of you are looking to not be afraid anymore?
This shepherd takes away fear.
The second thing Keller says that every sheep, he can't be sipped by quiet waters if he doesn't have his friction.
Like three Fs, by the way, fear and friction, meaning one of the great ways that a wolf will come into a sheep
heard and kill a bunch of them is he waits for the sheep to start fighting each other.
Think about this in your own life.
Satan will distract you by you fighting other Christians and then come in and just maul you, right?
And this is a beautiful thing about why
I think about the people in your life that you need to forgive right now.
Think about the frictions in your life that are distracting you from the mission that God has you on.
The people you're fighting, the people you can't forgive, you're struggling to forgive that person who said that thing at Thanksgiving six years ago.
And you're struggling to forgive them.
One of the great things Jesus Christ calls us to is to forgive because that's how you're going to live free.
depending on when you're watching this, a few weeks ago when I recorded this, of course, Charlie Kirk got assassinated and his wife a few weeks ago got up at his memorial, 100 million people watching it, aside from the political aspect of it, got up and looked out at her audience and said, I forgive the young man who shot and killed my husband.
And that reverberated
out into the world, that kind of ability.
And Tim Allen, you know, the guy who used a voice of Buzz Lightyear or the home improvement guy, he went on Twitter and he said in 19, I think it was 69 or something like that, a, a, um, a drunk driver killed his father.
And for 60 years, he hasn't been able to forgive his, the person who drunk driver who killed his father.
And he said he watched
Erica Kirk at that memorial say she forgave that person who killed child care and she's like, he's like, I now am going to tell the world that I forgive the man who killed my father.
It's like the powerful inspiration when someone decides to eliminate friction.
Some of you are living in friction.
You breathe.
You don't even know what to do with it if you forgave.
And Jesus Christ lays out this beautiful reality.
You want to lay by quiet waters.
You want to lay down in green pastures.
Not only do you have to get rid of fear, you got to get rid of friction in your life.
And the last one is, and this is an interesting one, but it has everything due to your life, is flies.
Flies.
You're like, what does that have to do with anything?
Listen, so here's this beautiful thing.
Later in the passage, he says, you anoint my head with oil, right?
You anoint my head with oil.
Here's the beautiful thing.
This is what Keller says.
Summertime is fly time for the sheep.
The flies deposit their eggs in the nose of the sheep.
The eggs will hatch.
This is gross.
In a few days and the larvae will work their way up the nasal passages into the sheep's head.
And what the sheep does is he says is he beat, they beat their heads against rocks in order to kill the larvae and it might even come to the fact that they kill themselves trying to kill the larvae.
The shepherd
With the very first sign of flies, we'll apply the antidote, a mixture of linseed oil, sulfur, and tar, which is smeared on the sheep's nose and head and the sheep become calm and feed again.
Here's the beautiful thing.
God saves you from yourself.
The worst thing these sheep could do was bash their own head against a rock trying to solve themself of a problem.
They think they're solving a problem and they're killing themself.
And God saves them from the stupidity of their life, doing the very things that feel like in the moment, this is what I need to do, but in the long run, these are the things that are killing me.
And God goes, I'm such a good shepherd, I'm gonna save Mark Clark from himself.
Stop, I'm gonna noise your head.
Stop beating your head against this thing that you think is the right direction to go in your life.
Some of you are right there right now.
I literally bored a chainsaw from a guy at the office the other day.
I'm like, I need to cut down a bunch of trees at my house.
He's like, have you ever used a chainsaw?
I'm like, no, it's fine.
And my buddy goes, grabs a chainsaw.
I said, do not let him, dude, listen.
I know this guy, do not let him go home with a chainsaw.
And he took it away from me.
I would have probably put it between my legs like, I would have chopped off both arms.
Sometimes we need people to save us from ourselves.
And this is what he's doing.
He's like, there are things in your life.
We get hurt, we have pain, we have scabs, we have memories, we have events, we have words.
And some days, we don't really want to get out of bed.
And we need the
the bomb, the salve, this healing reality of God's going to anoint my head with oil.
He's going to heal us and he's going to soothe us and he's going, come on, you belong to this world.
I need you on mission.
Stop banging your head against the rocks trying to isolate yourself and shame and guilt and sin.
And then he says he refreshes my soul.
And soul is the most important part about you.
You are a body.
You are not a body with a soul.
You are a soul with a body.
You live eternally.
You will not live 80 years.
You will live 80 billion.
Every single person watching this listening to this right now will live forever guaranteed.
Neither heaven or hell.
And that's why Jesus Christ came and said, I want you to come to heaven.
I want you to live a full flourishing life of delight and pleasure for
evermore.
And I want you to have that.
And I remember my grandfather when he was in his 30s.
He died two years ago at 100 years old.
But when he was his 30s, he became a Christian.
He was the only other Christian in my family.
And he went and the way he got saved was in the early 50s, I think.
He went to a Billy Graham crusade and he heard about Jesus and he went for him.
He gave his light to Jesus.
And he told me and he prayed for me for years before I ever became a Christian.
He looked at me and he said, you know what Billy Graham preached that day?
He preached that passage from Mark chapter 8 where Jesus gets up and he says, what will it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his one, his soul?
And he said, he gave the image of a scale.
And he said, okay, you're gonna profit the whole world.
You're gonna get nice cars.
And you're gonna get a beautiful house.
You're gonna get a perfect spouse.
You're gonna get nice jewelry.
And you're gonna do all of this.
And your soul is over here.
And you're gonna gain all of this.
And you're gonna forfeit your soul.
And Jesus goes, what is it gained?
Nothing.
You had a good 70 years.
But what about the 70 million?
And the 70 million after that.
And the 70 million after that, where eternity is
steak.
Now, what are the reasons our soul doesn't find rest?
Keller talks about this idea that there's the shepherd.
He says there's something that happens to sheep and I want you, some of you need to hear this.
There's something that happens to sheep.
They become what's called a cast sheep.
And a cast sheep is a sheep that has fallen over and it can't get back up at its feet.
and live life.
So it just gets ravaged by wolves or whatever because it falls over and it can't get back up.
And he says, what happens, the reason a cast sheep happens is one of three reasons, that they're resting in too comfortable a place.
They have too much wool or they're just too fat.
Bottom line is, they're comfortable and their comfort begins to work against them.
Some of you, I'm just gonna say it, the reason that your soul isn't flourishing
The reason your life is enforcing is because you're too comfortable.
You've made it, you've arrived, you've got, honestly, it's come to, you have too much money, you have too much comfort, you have beautiful, all the things, and it hasn't driven you to say, I gotta deal with the question of God in my life, because you have all these other things figured out.
I remember when I was doing young adult ministry as a pastor for years, I felt when I was 27, I felt God called me to plant a church, to leave the church we were at,
to drive 35 minutes away and to start a church with 16 people.
And back at this other job, I had the comfortable life and the beautiful office and the comfortable salary and all of this.
And I remember we went to plant our church and our pastors were like, well, there's no point in maybe if this church thing doesn't work out in a year or so, you can come back here.
And I was like, no, you don't understand.
I got to burn the ships.
This is done to me.
I can't come back to this comfort.
It's the only way I'm going to actually survive and make this successful is if I know I can't come back to the comfort of this.
The comfort is going to work against me.
And I've had people in my life offer me jobs.
I had a guy sit across from me one time at a table and he offered me a job.
He said, if you come and work for me and do what you do but do it in my company,
I would pay you and he told me in a mount that I was like, I didn't know I was going to make that in a lifetime, let alone.
He said, I'll give you that salary per year.
But you got to leave ministry.
I don't, I can't, you can't be a pastor anymore.
He can't be preaching the Bible.
He can't be doing this.
And I was like, Lord, is this what you're calling me to do?
Like I'm feeling this.
And it's like, this is exactly what happened.
C.S.
Lewis talks about the screw tape letter.
She says, all of the money and all the comfort of the world that has a way of knitting a person's soul to the world.
And that's exactly what we all have to be careful of, the riches that do their work.
And so he's going, no, this is what I want you to do.
This is what I want you to be.
The way he refreshes your soul is you make sure that you're not too comfortable, that you can hear him when he speaks.
And he says, he guides me along the right paths for his namesake.
Notice that, by the way, that he's saying in verse three, why does God do all this?
It's not for your namesake, it's for his namesake.
I love this.
Here's the big mistake.
that we make as human beings.
I don't know if I talked about this in one of the other sermons series, but I love this image that I read in a book one time.
He says, some of you think that all the, verse one, two, that all the good things that God is doing in your life, you think that that's about you, all right?
And that's the fundamental flaw, because he says this, there's two ways of thinking about life.
Some of you, you have cat theology, others of you have dog theology.
Now, raise your hand up at all the campuses, we can see you.
Raise up your hand if you have a cat.
Raise your hand up and give you a hand.
Okay, look around the ground.
Okay, so a cat, a cat is the kind of creature where he looks at you and he says, my master feeds me, gives me water, gives me a beautiful place to live.
And then he says this, if you go, I must be God, right?
That's what a cat does, right?
A dog looks at you and goes, this person, this master, feeds me, waters me, gives me water, gives me a beautiful place to live.
They must be God.
Right?
That's why when you come home, a dog is waiting for you.
Oh, you must be God, I'm gonna serve you.
A cat is like, they give me water, they give me, I must be God, which is why you come home and the cat's just sitting up on the perch and like, get away from me.
All right?
It's like cat, see some of you live with cat theology.
God refreshes my soul.
He leads me besides still waters.
He gives me the blessing of a family and breath in my lungs and close on my back in a beautiful home and a job and a life.
I must be God.
That's the thing working against your soul.
Is he got a repent of that and go, no, he's God.
I got to become a dog feel where he comes home and I'm, what do you want me to do?
All the things that you've given me, I want to live for you.
And you know what's freeing about that for your own soul is that you become, it's like,
you become much harder to offend, because life isn't about your name, it's about his name.
In traffic, you don't get mad, because you're like, you know what, the reason I'm sitting in traffic right now is a whole bunch of people, just like me.
And I'm the problem, I'm sitting in traffic, and the guy behind me thinks, I'm the problem, just like I think he's a problem, because life ain't about my name, it's about his name.
And all of life is about that.
The Westminster Catechism, the opening line is, what is the chief end of man?
What is the chief end of a human being?
And it says, uh, to glorify God and enjoy him forever.
Your whole chief purpose of being on this planet is to elevate his name, not your own.
That's the crux of this whole song, right?
It's for your name's sake that all of this happens.
And I'm going to live for your name's sake versus my own.
And then he says in verse four, even though I walk through the valley, the darkest valley, I will fear no evil for you or with me.
How many of us have been through the darkest valley?
Fear, death.
But I'm not going to fear it.
Some of you, your biggest fear in life is your own death.
But if you have Jesus, if you know where you're going, you don't even have to fear that.
The one thing that everyone else fears years ago,
A preacher that I heard said one day you're gonna open the newspaper and you're gonna read that I'm dead But don't believe it for a second because in that moment I'm gonna be a more alive than I've ever been Because there's something you step into eternity my buddy told me that he he sat by his bedside of his dad And he was dying and he was breathing his last and there was this gas spring I want one more breath I want one more breath and then I I've sat
by others and they just slowly go into eternity.
And there's like this sense of, if Jesus Christ really rose from the dead, then we don't even have to fear our own death.
And I've seen people, man, you're like, yeah, but I question God when people die or go through suffering or pain.
One of my mentors in life
Pastor Paul Johnson, he watched his wife die of cancer, he watched his son get murdered, and then recently his daughter, who was in her early 30s, passed away of cancer.
I mean, one guy, can you imagine going through all of that as one person?
It's like the literally living job.
And you would think you would look at a guy like that and say, my gosh, his faith must be done.
And he looked at me and he was, Mark, life can beat you up and life sucks, but man,
God is still good.
I'm not going to pretend I understand what he's doing, but he is still good because I'm going to walk through the darkest valley and I'm still going to hold on to him because he says, you are with me.
So here's what, here's what the shepherd W Phillip Keller says.
You are with me.
He says, I came to realize that nothing so quieted and reassured the sheep that I were part of my care as to see me in the field.
The presence of their master and owner and protector put them at ease as nothing else could do.
The sheep become edgy, tense, discontented, and restless.
They lose weight and become irritable.
Whenever I came into view and my presence attracted their attention, the sheep quickly forgot their foolish rivalries and stopped fighting.
The shepherd's presence made all the difference in their behavior.
When my daughters used to have nightmares.
You know what wouldn't work?
Me walked into the bedroom and go, now listen to these three points about why you shouldn't have nightmares.
Think like this, do this, do this.
It would be me crawling into bed with them because the presence of God in your life is the solution to all things.
And then he says, your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
Rod and staff, they were disciplined and direction things.
I was in India years ago and the sheep would go off and the shepherd, I would watch them with this big rod and he would hit the sheep and bring them back.
onto the right path.
And this is sometimes what happens in life as God will discipline us or bring situations into our life.
So the shepherd says this, a shepherd smacks his sheep at times to keep him away from poisonous weeds.
It's for our good, by the way, or close danger.
Also, because of their long wool.
It is not always easy.
I love this.
Listen to this now.
It is not always easy to detect disease, wounds, or defects in sheep.
For example, at a sheep's show, an inferior animal can be clipped and shaped and shown as to appear a perfect specimen.
But the skilled judge will take his rod and part the sheep's wool to determine the condition of the skin.
Here's what I love.
Listen, God cares about what's underneath the surface.
of your life.
Other people might look at you and think you have it all together.
You're spiritually fine.
Everything's good.
God takes his rod and he parts and he says, no, no, no.
Here's what I really see.
You look like a righteous person on the outside, maybe.
Your Facebook posts are beautiful and your talk, your language, you show up to church, all the things.
But God cares so much about you.
He wants to separate that out and go, no, I see what's
I see what's underneath.
I see the things that all the people around you, they don't see.
I was at Starbucks recently and the girl, you know, I got my card out and she said, here's four bucks for coffee or whatever, and then put the thing and I said, you know, do you want a tip?
And I'm like, no, of course I don't want a tip.
You know, you're already making 20 bucks an hour and I already paid five bucks for this coffee.
So I just hit no tip.
And then I hit the card against the machine.
And just as it did it, she looked at me and she's like, hi, Pastor Mark.
And I'm like, no.
No, why, no.
Like, if she had said she knew who I was before the tip option, I would have given her a big tip.
Oh my, he'd give me $20 tip.
And now she's caught me because here's the thing.
Why is that a sickness?
Because I'm trying to project something out into the world that's not true.
The reality is I'm cheap.
I don't want to give you a tip.
But if you already knew who I was and I'm supposed to show you that I'm a great passer, I would have tipped you a lot.
That's how sick I am because I'm trying to project something out into the world just like you are.
And God goes, I don't fall for that.
See what I do?
As I take my rod and my staff and I part the wool
And I'm looking in at what's really messed up about Mark, because I want to solve that.
That's how good of a shepherd I am.
I'm not fooled by your exterior wool.
I'm not fooled by all the things.
You can't fool God.
That's the beautiful thing about him as a shepherd.
And so he says, you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
And so the shepherd, Keller talks about, you have to go home and work a lot around creating a flat surface where they could show up.
And of course, it says, in the presence of my enemies, because you're going to have enemies, by the way, in life, you know that, right?
You've got people who don't like you, Satan, sin, death, but also people around you, they hate you, they're your predators, lots of sheep have lots of predators, anything that can kill them.
And I'm a right.
I don't do a lot of nature things, but I bought my girls three chickens one time and they were in the back in this little like Tupperware Rubbermaid box and in the morning I woke up and I looked out and it was just a bloodbath outside.
I was like, oh my goodness, and raccoons had come into my backyard and opened up the lid and just mauled these three chickens to death.
And I'm like, oh wow, okay, if you are sitting there, you got lots of predators and they will eat you alive if you can't defend yourself.
All of us have enemies.
All of us are trying to stay encouraged, but sin is trying to discourage us.
Satan is trying to tempt us.
And here's the thing, you know what I realize about the enemy?
He wants to discourage you at every moment.
I read this this week, it says, the devil calls you by your sin.
Jesus calls you by your name.
Isn't that good?
The devil calls you by your sin.
Hey, you're not good enough.
Remember that thing you looked at last week?
You are not good enough to be sitting in church right now.
And Jesus Christ goes, hey, I know you looked at that thing and I'm glad you're here.
I love you anyway and I'm gonna do something in your life you could never dream of.
I wanna change not what you do, but what you want to do so that your very affections for that thing disappear.
And he says, my cup overflows.
See, you're starting to now get the blessing of God, the contentment of Jesus in your life.
So your cup is overflowing.
So you're not wanting that sin in that life anymore.
Surely goodness and mercy follow me.
I love that.
You know what, the shepherd, we see, we think of a shepherd that is out front.
No, no, no, the shepherd watch any shepherd.
The shepherd is behind the sheep.
He's leading them from behind.
The footsteps follow the sheep.
And that's what he's trying to say.
This one follows me.
And what is it that follows him?
Goodness and mercy.
That's who God is, by the way.
You can think of him as judge.
You can think of him as mean.
You can think of him as angry.
He's goodness and he's mercy.
So four gospel accounts in the Bible, right?
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
89 chapters between all four of those gospel accounts.
There's one place where Jesus Christ tells us about his own heart, right?
Because when we talk about the good shepherd, Jesus, I mean, in the Psalm, it's God himself, but then Jesus shows up.
Matthew chapter 11, he says this, I am gentle and lowly in heart.
I'm good and merciful.
I'm not angry and jacked up.
Here's the thing.
When I started my church when I was 29 years old, I would preach and I would preach jacked up Jesus.
Like, I don't want this weak Jesus, lowly and gentle.
He's calling you to do this and you better leave your thing.
You better give all your money.
I just go off on this big tangent people.
And here's the thing.
Now that I'm 45 years old,
I love the gentle and lowly.
I love, I love the good and merciful verses because I've had 20 whatever more years of sinning.
I need the gentle and lowly.
I need what follows me is, is goodness and mercy.
I need that every day of my life.
So let me, let me leave you with this great image of Jesus.
There's a show called The Chosen, if you haven't seen it.
It's like four or five seasons of the Jesus story.
And there was this one scene where this lady, Mary Magdalene, she'd been totally messed up.
She was a prostitute and she had this messed up background.
But the episode starts off with her father.
She's a little girl and her father's reading her this passage from the Bible.
And it's about how the fact that God knows her name and all these things is beautiful.
She's a little girl and it's all these flashbacks.
You're not really sure what this has to do with anything until right at the end.
when Jesus is trying to like connect with her and he's trying to show her how much God loves her and she was rejecting it because of the shame and the guilt and she's like forget this and then Jesus goes boom and he starts to quote the exact passage from Isaiah, wherever it is, where God knows your name.
The exact passage is that her father used to read her every night when she went to bed.
Jesus all of a sudden boom says it to her and she looks
And she starts to be drawn to Jesus because what he's saying is, I've been watching you your whole life.
I've seen when your daddy used to read this to you about your identity and I'm calling you by your name, not by your sin.
And some of you just need to know that that's the gentle and lowly, good and merciful God that loves you and sees you.
And he died in a cross through and he rose again to give you life.
So Father, I pray that this great song would inspire us to feel your love and our identity would flow from that.
And we would understand you are the good shepherd.
And if there's those here who've never trusted in you, Jesus, as the good shepherd that today, right now, they would draw a line in the sand and say, Lord Jesus, this is the day I receive you as my shepherd and do a powerful work in each of their lives.
And if that is you,
then make sure you talk to one of our pastors, go to the connect desk, make sure you talk to us about, hey, I want to start over the, I started a relationship.
I prayed that prayer for the first time today.
I started a relationship with Jesus.
We would love to serve you in that way.
God bless you guys, and we'll see you next week for the final week of this great series in the book of Psalms.